English | [简体中文](./README.md)

#### Introduction

At present, the kernel versions maintained by various RISC-V SoC vendors are not consistent, and the openEuler system requires a unified kernel for each version. This leads to various operating system versions released based on various development boards being third-party versions with inconsistent kernels, increasing maintenance difficulty and causing ecological fragmentation.

The goal of riscv-kernel is to establish a unified kernel ecosystem in openEuler for RISC-V architecture, sharing the construction and impact of the openEuler ecosystem. The project is under development and we welcome all parties to actively contribute.

#### Software architecture

riscv64

#### Project significance

- A unified kernel can enhance the user experience on different hardware platforms.
- Strengthen cooperation between hardware vendors, publishers, and developers to improve kernel compatibility and development efficiency.
- Reduce development and maintenance costs for all parties, and accelerate the development of applications and ecosystems.
- Promote the development and promotion of RISC-V hardware platform, laying the foundation for the comprehensive development of RISC-V ecosystem.

#### Explanation

- This repository is based on the OLK-6.6 branch of [openEuler/kernel](https://gitee.com/openeuler/kernel) and is continuously updated synchronously.
- Before merging into OLK-6.6, it will be merged into the [src-openeuler/kernel](https://gitee.com/src-openeuler/kernel) in patch form and maintained.
- Welcome to submit support patches for different RISC-V SoCs. If you encounter code conflicts or other issues, you can submit issues and continue to track them.
- For the convenience of patch maintenance and management, the PR and patches submitted by this repo MUST comply with the [Patch Merge Specification](./Patch_spec.md).

#### Participate in contributions

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a new development branch based on OLK-6.6
3. Develop scope and plan for new support capabilities
4. Submit SoC support
5. Resolve code conflicts generated by PR
